---
layout: post
title:  "Round 2 Day 26 of 100 Days of Code"
categories: 100DaysofCode
---

Coding right the first time is so hard but so important - rework is painful. As a beginner, rework is the main way that I internalize lessons.

## Today's Progress
+ I finally got the JSON for the Travel Together application to decode using the Swift decodable method all the way down to the nested trip members and nested allergies.
+ Began working (again) on invites for the travel application. This has been my nemesis for a long time, but I made some progress. It is quite complicated. You must: 
    1 enable Dynamic Links on Firebase
    2 have a team ID (also called an App Prefix) - which means that you must have a developer account
    3 use a valid app store app id, doesn't have to be for the app
    4 set up a provisioning profile allowing associated domains in your app
    5 simulate or run your app on an actual device (won't work on simulator)

    ++ within this process, I got a link to open my app if installed
    ++ then, I got the appstore to open if my app is not installed

+ Read all of the Firebase Dynamic Link and Invite documentation, watched all of the associated Youtube videos. Attempted to understand and create an invitation from my application, no dice
+ Began reading Branch.io documentation. Downloaded and played with the [Branchster Monster Factory](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/id917737838) which is thankfully [open source and avail on GitHub](https://github.com/BranchMetrics/Branch-Example-Deep-Linking-Branchster-iOS). Attempted to recreate and understand how the links are created within the application and how to apply that to my more complex use case. My head is a little exploding trying to figure out how the links are constructed based on the Objective C code in the open source example application. Feeling very not smart.

## Thoughts  
**Programming is hard** Well, some programming is easy. Switching between languages and figuring out the nuances behind the relatinships in the languages, that is hard. 

## Link to work
I don't have any work to share, but I did create [this neat monster](https://branchster.app.link/l2q5N7aiXH)