---
layout: post
title:  "Round 2 Day 61 of 100 Days of Code"
categories: 100DaysofCode
---

Wow, I have gotten *really* bad at updating. The last two days after returning from vacation, I only updated twitter...and it looks like I also did that for a week before I left. I'll try to do better.

## Today's Progress
+ Woke up to news that my website travel blog wasn't rendering right in mobile, so I hopped on my iPhone Safari. Sure enough, pictures were all wonky and man, that menu was uugleee. I don't think I had ever looked at it before. In any case, I decided to set that as my coding priority for the day. A quick question on Dave Seah's wonderful discord coworking chat room had my image problems all solved. Turns out that the iPhone browser is smarter than the normal browsers, and it **knows** to look at the image meta data. I needed to strip the meta data from my images. Once that was done and uploaded, the pictures were fine, but the menu was still bad. I wanted it to collapse into a hamburger on smaller devices. I went and looked at how the menu was implemented in other jekyll configurations and then updated my own. I took a look at the al-folio github page and realized that someone else, just like me, wanted this last June. I'm grateful that I solved it for myself, because I was able to submit a PR to help others do the same. Go open source! The actual change ended up including four different files because al-folio separates .scss into many files, so I changed the media queries, header, and variables for .scss and then I made a quick update to the 'header.html' include. Easy Peasy.

+ I redid a course on testing in React by Stephen Girder - OMG, it made so much more sense to me this time. I think I was caught up on the words last time and not how testing actually worked. Quick note: when testing with React, we *Describe* a component (using a string that will be meaningful), come up with a meaningful string for the *it* that we are going to assert, and include a functional *expect* statement that actually is the assertion. Something like: 

{% highlight Javascript %}
describe('Thing', ()  =>  {
    it('is the word cupcake', () => {
        const component = renderComponent(Thing);
        expect(component).to.contain('cupcake');
    });
});
{% endhighlight %}

+ I started a Udemy course by Stephen Girder to understand how to combine Node with React. I am going to get this backend stuff; I just know it. 



## Thoughts  
**I love open source** 

## Link to work
+ my [PR for al-folio hamburger menu](https://github.com/alshedivat/al-folio/pull/10)